---
layout: post
title: CSIR-NET December 2015 Abstract Algebra(part B)
tags: [2015, Counting, Group Theory, Polynomials Rings]
---

**Question 1:** A group is generated by the elements $x,y$ with the relations $$x^3 = y^2=(xy)^2=1 .$$ The order of $G$ is

1. $4$
2. $6$
3. $8$
4. $12$

**Answer:** This is the presentation of a Dihedral Group, since
> The dihedral group of order $2n$ is given by,
> <center>$D_{2n} = \langle a, b~\vert a^2 = b^n =e, ba = ab^{n-1} \rangle $</center>
>Note that, the condition $ba = ab^{n-1}$ can be written in many ways,
> <center>$ ba = ab^{n-1}\Leftrightarrow ba = ab^{-1}\Leftrightarrow abab = (ab)^2 = e$</center>

Hence the above group is $D_6$, so it's order will be $6$.

Hence **2** is the correct choice.

***
**Question 2:** What is total number of positive integral solutions to the equation $$ (x_1 + x_2 + x_3)(y_1+y_2+y_3+y_4)=15$$

1. $1$
2. $2$
3. $3$
4. $4$

**Answer:** Since we are looking for the positive solution, the minimum possible value will be $1$. Hence,
$$
\begin{align}
(x_1 + x_2 + x_3) &\geq 3 \\
(y_1+y_2+y_3+y_4) &\geq 4
\end{align}
$$
Since $ 15=3\times 5 $, we have only these choices
$$
\begin{align}
(x_1 + x_2 + x_3) &= 3 \\
(y_1+y_2+y_3+y_4) &= 5
\end{align}
$$
So the $x_i = 1$. One of the $y'$s will be $2$
other have to be $1$. So we have $4$ choices of solution.

Hence **4** is the correct choice.

***
**Question 3:** Which of the following is an irreducible factor of $x^{12} - 1$ over $\mathbb{Q}$?

1. $x^8 + x^4 + 1$.
2. $x^4 + 1$.
3. $x^4 - x^2 +1$.
4. $x^5 - x^4 + x^3 -x^2 + x -1 $.

**Answer:** Although the general theory involve Cyclotomic polynomials, but this question can be solved by factorization taught under matriculation.
$$
\begin{align}
&x^{12} - 1 \\=& (x^6-1)(x^6+1) \\
=& (x^2 - 1)(x^4+x^2+1)(x^2+1)(x^4-x^2+1)
\end{align}
$$
Since the expression $(x^4-x^2+1)$ can't be factored over $\mathbb{Q}$, hence it will be an irreducible factor.

Hence **3** is the correct choice.

***
**Question 4:** What is the cardinality of the set
$$ \{ z \in \mathbb{C} ~|~z^{98} \text{ and } z^n \neq 1 \text{ for any } 0  < n < 98 \}?$$

1. $0$
2. $12$
3. $42$
4. $49$

**Answer:** Here we have to find all the elements of cyclic group of order $98$($\mathbb{Z}_{98}$), such that their order is also $98$(they are generators). Hence it is enough to find $\phi(n)$
$$\begin{align} \phi(98) &= \phi(2\times 7^2) \\ &=\phi(2) \times \phi(7^2) \\&= 1 \times 7\times 6 \\ &=42.\end{align}$$

Hence **3** is the correct choice.

****
**Question 5:** Let $R$ be an Euclidean domain such that $R$ is a field. Then the polynomial ring $R[X]$ is always

1. a Euclidean domain.
2. a principal ideal domain, but not a Euclidean domain.
3. a unique factorization domain, but not a principal ideal domain.
4. not a unique factorization domain.

**Answer:** Here we have to apply three standard theorems to arrive at the correct conclusion.
> Theorem 1: ED $\subsetneq $ PID $\subsetneq $UFD.
> Theorem 2: If $D$ is a UFD then the same is $D[X]$.
> Theorem 3: $R[X]$ is a PID iff $R$ is a field.

Since $R$ in the problem is not a field hence $R[X]$ will not a PID.

But $R$ is a ED $\Rightarrow $ $R$ is an UFD $\Rightarrow $ $R[x]$ is a UFD.

Hence **3** is the correct choice.
